hello everyone and welcome back to
another minecraft update video it is 20
w 13 a and if I sound a little bit
different than normal I'm kind of a bit
under the weather
got a bit of a sore throat but that has
not stopped me from being totally
excited about this snapshot there is a
new mob and new block and lots of really
interesting new additions and first of
all let's talk about the lodestone this
is the new block that you can get if you
adventure into the nether and you need
to go there because of how it is crafted
you will need yourself some chiseled
stone bricks but the main ingredient
there the nether I in Girt will allow
you to make the lodestone block so if we
look at my hotbar you might be able to
tell what's going on this block is
basically like an anchor point in the
world for a compass to point to now
normally the compass points towards a
world spawn which is in that direction
over there but if I go and right-click
on a lodestone then it sets it to this
right here and then it points it which
is just amazing so if I turn around that
compass right there you can see it a
mile found as well as on the hotbar is
turning and pointing towards it now in
survival minecraft I think this could be
a really fun way to play with friends
you know point them to locations in the
world things like that and it's gonna
have its use in minigames as well now
some interesting quirks about this block
and the compass itself you can actually
have a stack of compasses and then click
with a stack of compasses and it changes
it to a lodestone compass and obviously
it enchants it interesting stuff when
you break the block then your compass is
going to freak out which is probably a
temporary bug now when it comes to
interacting with this with redstone you
can't move it with pistons you can power
the block but it has no comparator
output reading for any sort of data in
fact no data is stored inside this block
so when you go and click on it with your
compass and by the way you can use one
that's already been set to a location
and then change it to another one I
think it is the compass right here that
is holding the information about where
it is pointing to this also works across
dimensions this one is pointing to the
lodestone compass here and this one is
pointing to the one in the nether you
can also use this command to actually
see what's going on inside of the item
itself
and you can see it stores the
coordinates and it stores what dimension
it's in as well now the next thing I'm
going to show you is not a new block but
a new way to create a block that's been
added in this update that block is
basalt which in the last update we
learned you can turned into polish
basalt over here beautiful texture but
building with and what you'll need is a
blue ice which you can get from these
icebergs found in the deep frozen ocean
the other thing you're going to need is
so soil not to be confused with Sol sand
so this setup over here isn't gonna work
but this one is when the lava touches
the blue ice of Sol soil underneath it
creates basalt and of course this means
you can automate it you can mine it with
your pick and you can basically generate
the salt out of nothing which i think is
a really cool idea another change to the
basalt is that you can't make the Polish
basalt in a furnace anymore it's now
made in stone color just like the other
materials like polished andesite and all
of that okay
straight up first impressions here what
is this I love it this has quite a high
resolution for a small mob it's textured
look at that face right there that feels
a little bit more like a 32x
resourcepack that's something I'll point
out but yeah here is the new mob and its
name is the Strider oh I had a feeling
you could do this yep you can put a
saddle on it and you can ride it across
the lava absolutely beautiful except
we're not going anywhere
so the Strider this can be commonly
found in lava lakes this is the location
where they like to be this is the
location where they spawn and I summoned
one in over here with no AI so I can
look at its properties it has the same
health as a player does that's 20 hit
points or 10 hearts and it's a peaceful
mob I'm currently in peaceful mode and
if you attack it it doesn't attack you
back and if you spawn it in on land
it'll just basically make its way over
to lava if you kill this mob it will
drop string it can drop between two and
five and it is affected by the eluting
enchantment and as you see here it has a
baby
so we can use warped fungus to breathe
them together and when this is
successful you actually get the
advancement for it which is something
they always seem to forget when they add
a new mob but this time they've actually
done it you're also probably noticing
that they are attracted to the warped
fungus so you can use this to lure them
in a direction now unfortunately this
isn't this isn't a lava boat and I feel
like it should be I'm pressing forward
back left right we don't move anywhere
and the wart fungus doesn't help us
navigate as well so what exactly mo yang
were intending us to do with this I'm
not entirely sure yeah I had a feeling
you might drop me in the lava oh dear so
I've got to say having looked at this
mob a little close up it kind of feels
rather out of place I'm not really
feeling the textures of this the shape
of the mob isn't particularly charming
and it really does feel quite useless
and it just kind of they just wander
around the lava I I'm not entirely sure
how I feel about this mob I did also
learn that they can spawn as a jockey I
looks like they can spawn in with a
jockey as well what is this a pickling
Strider jockey looks like you can also
have a baby as a jockey as well so I
spawned a silly amount of these and I
only saw those two types of jockeys
there's something else occurred to me as
well for some reason I just didn't spot
this earlier but there is a new item and
it is a warped fungus on a stick so now
you understand right how we use these I
just jump on your shoulders and now I
can tell you which direction to go and
if you're curious here are the mobs
sounds that's the ambient noise that's
the sound of it dying eating well it's
happy when it's hurt when it retreats
when it steps and when it steps on lava
and I believe it's just about everything
there is to know that about this mob at
this point in time okay you want to talk
about bugs I have no idea what is going
on right now I have no control over my
player what is this what's go
this is this is very peculiar l
snapshots they are buggy aren't they
there's been some changes to farmer
villages which we're gonna learn about
just next but I'm interrupting my own
video to say if you're not subscribed to
this channel and you want to keep up to
date with a snapshot so you know what to
do hit that button and if you feel like
it hit the bell as well so an
interesting trade to the farmer when it
has excess seeds it will actually put
them into the composter and that can
automatically turn it into bone meal now
this really sounds like something that
can be used for automation and hey we
just saw it in action so I've given this
guide tons of seeds and now he's
chucking them into the composter now it
doesn't look like he does this very
often but I'm sure some of the brainiacs
in the Minecraft community are gonna
figure out amazing ways to exploit this
and create bone meal from these villages
look we've got our first piece now you
might have noticed that that villager
actually picked it up himself so if I
chuck some more down on the ground there
we go it picked up the bone meal and we
should see it hold the bone meal in its
hands and use it on the crops hey there
we go do you see it you made the crops
grow it also says when they have excess
wheat that they'll actually share this
wheat with other farmers so that they
can make it bread together so I've done
this whole creative mode trick to shower
them with wheat and I think they've all
filled up their inventories now and I've
waited for a while and I haven't really
seen them do anything with that wheat
but there you go very powerful new
changes to the farming villager mob saw
the changes in this snapshot you can now
use a dispenser activated by redstone
it's got glowstone inside of it and you
can use that to charge up your respawn
anchor which was added in one of the
previous snapshots when bartering with
pig lines there's now an increased
likelihood of getting the soul speed
enchantment mining never gold ore will
now yield experience points there you go
we just got some the crimson and warped
wood types will no longer be able to be
used as fuel inside of a furnace I'm
clicking here I can't put it in they can
now be used to craft the smoker and the
campfire where before they couldn't
and their fence types are now capable of
connecting with other fence types the
mysterious jigsaw block have got on
updates with some new features and
whatnot but I really don't understand
any of this stuff so if you want to know
about that change it go to the link in
the description to read the official
changelog now last snapshot there were
some changes to phishing to target afk
fishing farms making it difficult to get
treasure from them and Lily pants were
one of the things that could invalidate
that you're now actually gonna be able
to get treasure if a lily pad is nearby
however more parameters have been put in
place to make making fishing farms are
difficult and so you might see the
community rise to the challenge again or
this might actually be the nail in the
coffin of the afk fishing farm there it
is there it is this is something I
missed from last week's snapshot the pig
limbs can actually kind of team up
riding a baby hog Lin and they can
actually snack free of them on top of
each other which is a really nice little
easter egg right there that is so cute
and adorable and another thing they
added from last week was these splashes
right here on the main menu are all
related to advice regarding the
coronavirus and covet 19 so I really
don't want to politicize my snapshot
videos or make them about anything else
but right now the world is in a state of
crisis we are going through a pandemic
and I really hope that all you out there
are taking this seriously I know there
are some people that believe it is not
as big deal as others are making it out
to be so I encourage you to take it
seriously to listen to your governments
and health organizations make sure that
yet staying at home if you can practice
it in social distancing and washing your
hands regularly this is a serious
serious thing that we're all going
through together and we will get through
it it's what we do but anyway that's the
end of this video thank you for watching
I'll see you next week bye-bye